# Spreadsheet_consolidator
This script is designed to process and organize data from spreadsheets, generated by the ClosestFacility calculation of ArcGis.
It is designed to process and organize data from spreadsheets according to a naming convension.</br> The spreadsheets should be named in the format "service_localityType_year.xls/xlsx" where "service" is the type of service, "localityType" is the type of location, and "year" is the year of data collection. The script will extract the service, the corresponding id of the facility, locality type, and year information from the spreadsheet names and use this information to group and merge the data from the spreadsheets. The script will be able to group the spreadsheets by their service, locality type, and year and merge the data from all the spreadsheets into a single spreadsheet.



## Requirements
- Python 3.x
- pandas
- openpyxl (if you want to write the output in .xlsx format)
- xlrd (if the input files are in .xls format)


## Usage

1. Clone the repository
> git clone https://github.com/username/spreadsheet_consolidator.git

</br>2. Install the required packages
> pip install -r requirements.txt

</br>3. Install the required packages
> pip install -r requirements.txt

</br>4. Put your spreadsheets in the *input* folder


</br>5. Run the script
> python spreadsheet_consolidator.py

</br>The consolidated spreadsheets will be in the *'results'* folder, organized by service and year.


## Configuration
You can change the path of the input and output directories in the script.
You can also change the format of the output file by changing the extension in the script.


## Note
The script assumes that the spreadsheets have the following columns: 'Name', 'Total_Length', whit the name storing: locality_id - facility_id, and length is the shortest distance between the locality (douar/sous_douar) and the service in km unit.

## Contribution
Any contribution to the script is welcomed. Feel free to open an issue or submit a pull request.
